>> Will Sentance: In the challenges,
we started to encounter
this magic keyword, new.
So we're gonna remind ourselves
that we wanted a function,
that when called, when run, would
return out little baby objects, user1.
Call them, first one user1, next one,
user2, user5,000, user whatever.
But we wanna have available on each
of the objects our functionality.
Have I mentioned this yet?
I know, I mentioned this many times.
This is our fundamental goal.
Can I call this function on the object,
is it available right there on the object.
That's all I want.
But I don't wanna have multiple copies of
this function on user1, user2, user5000.
So along comes this special shed store,
of the functions that I could ever
want on user1 user,
it wouldn't just be increment login,
it would increment login, logout and
change avatar, display avatar, etc, etc.
All those functions on
user function store would
be available when I call
user1.thatfunction.
Cuz if I don't find that function
on user1, my prototypal nature
of JavaScript means I check the _proto_
where I find a bond through
the prototype chain to the next object up,
user function store, okay.
But I'm sure you'll agree Mohamed,
quite a lot of space here.
Of our typing has been taken up by
creating that new user object in here, and
creating that bond to that shared function
store, and returning our other object.
Who comes from a true OOP language?
Do you do all that stuff by hand there?
No, you do not.
And JavaScript increasingly
wants us to feel liberated,
from all this manual work of making
our prototype bonds, Mohamed.
>> Will Sentance: All
these prototype bonds.
I hate putting away from the pairing,
I'm sorry.
I feel very bad, the pairing is where
the real value's at, it really is.
But right now we're gonna see
our solution three in a moment.
We're gonna get, let's see our
review with this approach problem.
No problems, this a beautiful approach.
I love this approach maybe
a little long-winded.
We've declared a new variable with
an object associated with a bond to
function store.
We've returned that object.
Six words it's not that bad but,
I will say this is super sophisticated but
it is none standard.
This is a non standard way of creating
our objects with shared functionality.
This is a non standard way,
we have a standardized way.
In the down side of this
approach yes six was but also,
once you start creating objects in which
you have your data and functionality,
you start doing this for everything.
Are you creating a quiz
game you generate a quiz
board as an object with
functionality attached to it.
It's a single instance the of the quiz.
You're not gonna create more of them.
You just start thinking OOP for
everything and
therefore if you are manually
doing this inside each time.
Yeah, may be it is not as,
may be there is a better way.
Another language you are not doing this,
if you are trying to achieve oop.
But I will say if this way, sophisticated.
We get to see every precise bit,
we get to manually set our bond to hey,
we now know what's actually going on,
but a lot of this stuff gets automated.
It's still happening under the hood,
but it's getting typed in for
us, essentially, by JavaScript when
we use this magic keyword new.
Not magic, I don't know why magic there.
This keyword new.
When we run this user created function,
with the new keyword
in front of it,
it behaves in a totally under the hood,
similar way to this,
not identical, but similar.
But it's gonna automate so much of the
hard work we did here, declaring the and
so forth.
Let's see.
When we call the constructor function,
this guy here is known as our
constructor function, with new in front,
we automate two things.
We automatically create
the new user object.
We automatically return out that
user object when complete and
store in user1 for example.
Who can see why we have to rethink
how we write this code then?
Cuz right now, I declare an object code
new user, it's an empty object, and
then to fill in the properties name,
how do I refer to that object, Katie?
What label do I use to refer to
the object to fill in the name property?
>> Katie: New user.
>> Will Sentance: New user,
if I'm automatically creating this line,
JavaScript is going to
automate this line for us.
What's the label for my object?
That label's gone,
that's automatically done for me.
The object is created for me by Java,
everything in red is stuff that the new
keyword when I run the user created
function, instead of rekali but
instead with a new keyword in front of it.
I get an object automatically created.
And that object gets automatically, again,
everything in red is automatically
done for us, gets returned out.
But how do I fill in properly that is
something that is being auto created.
Anyone got an idea how JavaScript might
allow me to point to refer to that object?
What might be a useful
place holder keyword or
word that we could use to
point to that object, Katie?
What do you think might be an useful word,
Griffin?
>> Griffin: This.
>> Will Sentance: It's this.
It's a different use to the word this.
Totally different use but it still refer,
JavaScript when we use new,
create a new object by default and
gives it the label of this.
So behind the scenes we are sought
of going, not new user but
behind the scenes we're sought of going,
this is equal to object.create
empty object but it is automatic.
When we see which bit get cut in a second
that cuz we're not writing this JavaScript
inserts this for us, because we use the
new keyword in front of using a creator.
So who can now see another problem?
We now know how you can
refer to our object, but
who can see another problem but this
automation by automating this line, by
automatically creating the object, what's
another problem here that someone can see?
>> Speaker 4: There's still a bond.
>> Will Sentance: How do we get that bond?
Cuz before,
we manually made that bond, didn't we?
We said object.create
parentheses user function store.
Now, we don't get a chance
to make that bond.
That's gonna be automatically done for us.
The bond here is also gonna be automated.
But if it's automated,
what's it gonna refer to?
>> Speaker 5: This.
>> Will Sentance: This
is this object here.
We want something out here that is
gonna be a shared function store.
>> Will Sentance: Something
like where do we end
up actually storing our shared functions?
Well Java is a default place and
it's a default place and
it chooses the default place for the user
creator function of the other functions
like quiz question creator,
gameboard creator.
Anything that's gonna return an object
with all the data of the associated and
it's a default place.
Before I tell you what a default place is,
you need to know something.
Which many of you already know
we've said it many times,
functions in JavaScript
are really just what?
Anyone remember?
>> Group: Objects.
>> Will Sentance: Objects,
okay so, if that's the case,
user creator is a function.
Yeah, no problem.
It's a function.
There it is.
So if I treat user creator as
a function and put parenths on the end,
it runs it's functionality.
Hurray but
what is user creator also Andrew?
>> Andrew: An object.
>> Will Sentance: An object,
it's also an Object.
So if I treat user creator as an object,
it behaves as an object.
If I try and store on user creator,
user creator.andrew = 3 that has
no consequences on my function.
The next line I can
still go userCreater ().
If I treat it like an object,
it does its object stuff.
If I treat it like a function,
it does its function stuff.
Who feels that it's a bit weird.
Raise your hands if you
think that's a bit weird.
Feels a bit, no that's odd to me okay.
At least we're being honest,
it is a bit weird.
So if I did this line here
what would I have in using
a creator in this object version, Andrew?
>> Andrew: An Andrew.
>> Will Sentance: Andrew as a property and
the value would be-
>> Andrew: 3.
>> Will Sentance: 3 yeah.
Now, there is one way I've heard,
I think it's quite a smart
way of thinking about this.
In reality, userCreator, it's a function,
but it really is like an object first.
It's an object first.
With a special property on it called Call.
Which is the running of the functionality.
This is this not necessarily respective
of how we actually have it, but
think of JavaScript functions
as really just an object.
And when we do use a creator parenths,
what we're really doing is say
go run user creator and it's cool
property, which is the functionality.
And that sounds weird, but
that's really what we're doing.
Think of it being
the functionality as sort of there
under a call property, a run me property.
So if you're thinking how can it
be both things at the same time?
Well really it's just an object
with some functionality can be run.
Even though we think of it as a function
first, it's really an object first.
But we obviously use this
functionality far more, but
it really is an object first
with functionality attached.
But we always when we
add when we do parenths,
we speak to it's functionality bit.
Okay let's have thumbs on that,
cuz it really is important for
us to understand this is our final piece
of knowledge we need to understand for
us to be able to use the new key
word effectively let's have thumbs.